{\rtf1\ansi\deff2
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Symbol;}{\f4\fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green128\blue0;\red0\green128\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{\fs32 \snext0 Normal;}
}\pard\plain
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:0003}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Sports Administrator Help Contents}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L10}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Contents}
\f1\b\fs32\cf1 Sports Administrator Help\fs20 
\par \pard\qc \strike\cf2 
\par \pard \plain\strike\fs20\cf3 \{bmc bm0.SHG\}
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:0007}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} What Can the Sports Administrator Do}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L15}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Overview}
\plain\f1\b\fs32\cf1 What Can the Sports Administrator Do
\par \pard\li135 \plain\f1\fs20\cf4 
\par \pard \plain\fs20 The \i\b Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  can be used to:
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355\tx1075 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Manage all aspects of school, college and club sports carnivals
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Determine progressive totals during the carnival for teams, for individual competitors, for a particular age group, for a particular event and many more!
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Produce the following reports and graphs:
\par \pard\li715\fi-355\tx715\tx1435 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Overall results (with graph)
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Overall results by age
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Overall results by gender
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Overall results by age and gender
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Competitor results by event
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Event results (with graph)
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Current records by event
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Competitor places by event
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Age champions
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 General competitor lists
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 All competitor results
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355\tx1075 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Determine which event records have been broken
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Used to run as many carnivals as necessary simultaneously and seamlessly.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Assign extra points for cheer leading, participation etc.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Promote competitors from one final level into the next (say from a semi-final into a grand final)
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Generate "carnival disks" that can be sent to participating houses / schools / clubs for competitor nomination.  These disks are returned and imported into the \i\b Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  and which then automatically adds the competitor into the database and into the correct events.  This alone can save hours of time for organisers of sports carnivals
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355\tx1075 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Create marshalling sheets to organise competitors and record competitor results.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Quickly enter competitor results for immediate processing and future reference
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Reuse the same carnival structure year after year.  This means that setting up the carnival needs to happen only once.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Save all carnival results indefinitely.  This means that any carnival statistic can be determined years after the running of the carnival.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Import competitors from a main administration database.
\par \pard\tx355\tx1075 
\par \pard\tx355\tx1075 The \i\b Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  has the following features:
\par \pard\li1075\fi-355\tx295\tx1135 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The software can be networked.  This allows several people to enter results simultaneously.  This is often necessary for large carnivals.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Any number of point scales can be used.  This means that final places receive more points than semi-final places, which receive more points than quarter-final places and so on.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The \i\b Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  can automatically create event heats.  This is very useful when there are dozens of heats to be entered.
\par \pard\li1075\fi-355\tx295\tx1135 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The promotion of competitors from one final level to the next (i.e. semi-final to grand-final) can be done in either a staggered or smooth manner.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Events can be numbered easily so that they appear in the correct order on reports and forms.  
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Competing houses / schools / clubs can be allocated a "competitor pool total".  This can then be used to generate percentile results based on the number of competitors that the group had available to them.  This is particularly useful when schools of vastly differing sizes compete against each other.  It often gives a fairer indication of overall results.
\par \pard\li1075\fi-355\tx295\tx1135 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The carnival organiser can customise the header and footer on all reports.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The \i\b Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  uses the familiar Microsoft Access user interface.  The familiarity of the interface makes using the \i\b Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  easier.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The \i\b Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  is regularly updated to incorporate suggested changes and additions made by users of the program.  Customised reports can be regularly added if deemed appropriate.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Results can be entered in place order or lane order depending upon which is easiest.
\par \pard\li1075\fi-355\tx295\tx1135 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Events can be set up for ages under or over a certain age.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Competitors from a particular house / school / club can be assigned default lanes.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The lanes into which competitors are promoted can be specified.  Higher place getters can be assigned the middle lanes whilst lower place getters the outside lanes.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:0008}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} How to set up a carnival}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L20}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Carnival, Setup}
\f1\b\fs32\cf1 How to Set Up a Carnival
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 The Sports Administrator has a step by step guide to setting up a carnival.  This can be accessed by pushing the \b\cf4 Set up Carnival\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  button on the Main Menu.  It shows all the steps required to set up a carnival.  
\par 
\par There are two ways that a carnival can be set up.  However both methods require the following steps to be performed.
\par \b 
\par Required Steps for both Methods
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par Create, Copy or Modify a \plain\f1\fs20 Carnival\cf1 .
\par Set up the \plain\f1\fs20 PointScales \cf1 you wish to use in the carnival.
\par \pard Enter or select the \plain\f1\fs20 Teams\cf1  that will be competing at the carnival.  Houses or Schools will only be included if the Include check box is set.
\par Enter each \plain\f1\fs20 event\cf1  that will be offered at the carnival.
\par Allocate the \plain\f1\fs20 default lane(s)\cf1   to the house / school.
\par Set the \plain\f1\fs20 Event Numbers\cf1  which will be used to order the events.
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Method 1
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par Enter the competitors names\plain\f1\fs20  manually\cf1   \b AND/OR \plain\f1\fs20\cf1  \plain\f1\fs20 Import\cf1  them from a \plain\f1\fs20 data\cf1  file.  
\par Enter \plain\f1\fs20 competitors into events\cf1 .
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Method 2
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20 Generate Carnival Data Disks\cf1 .  These disks are then sent to a house / school representative who will enter the names of each competitor against the appropriate event.  
\par \plain\f1\fs20 Import Carnival Data Disks\cf1 .  The disks are then returned and imported into the Sports Administrator.
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:0009}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} How to Maintain a Carnival}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L30}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Carnival\'a0;Carnival, Maintain}
\b\fs32\cf1 How to Maintain Carnivals
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par The \b Sports Administrator\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  is quite flexible in the way it handles carnivals.  The \b Sports Administrator\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  sets up a separate file for each carnival you create. This means you can have any number of carnivals \plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'93\f1 running\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'94\f1  simultaneously.  It also makes it very easy to setup up subsequent carnivals by simply copying the old carnival to a new file. 
\par From the \f2\b\cf4 Maintain Carnivals\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  form it is possible to:
\par 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Create a New carnival that is completely blank
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Copy an existing Carnival to another name and modify it so that it meets new requirements
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Add (import) a Carnival
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Change the file associated with a carnival
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Rename a carnival
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Compact (and repair) a carnival file
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Delete a Carnival
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Select a new carnival to work on
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Import a carnival list from another \b Sports Administrator\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  application file.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 Before the Sports Administrator can be used it is necessary to make a carnival active.  This can be done by either \f2\cf4 double-clicking\f1\cf1  on the appropriate carnival in the list or by selecting the appropriate carnival and pushing the \f2\cf4 Make Active\f1\cf1  button.  If the location for that carnival has changed and cannot be located, you will be asked to locate it manually.  Once located, it will be set as the active carnival.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 New Carnival
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 Pushing the New Carnival button enables you to create a completely empty carnival file.  A New Carnival dialog is displayed in which you must enter:
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 A descriptive name for the new carnival. 
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 A file name for the new carnival.  Push the \b\cf4 Locate\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  button to select a file or enter a filename for the new carnival.  If the file does not exist simply locate the folder where you want the file to reside and type a new file name.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 A new empty carnival will be created.
\par \pard\li275\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Copy Carnival
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 To copy an existing carnival:
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Highlight the carnival you wish to copy.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Copy\f1\cf1  button.  The \f2\b\cf4 Copy Carnival\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  dialog will appear.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Enter a descriptive name for the new carnival. 
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Locate\f1\cf1  button to enter a filename for the new carnival.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Copy\f1\cf1  button to create a copy of the selected carnival with the new name and filename location.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Add Carnival
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 Use this option if a carnival has already been created but is not listed in the carnival list.  This may be the case when adding a carnival that has been created by someone else or after a fresh installation of the \b Sports Administrator.\plain\f1\fs20\cf1   To add a carnival:
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Add Carnival\f1\cf1  button.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Enter a descriptive name that describes the carnival that is to be added.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Locate the carnival file (it will have the extension .mdb)
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 The carnival will be added to the list.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Change Carnival File
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 Sometimes a carnival file name is renamed or the carnival is using the wrong file.  Push the \f2\cf4 Change File\f1\cf1  button to select a different carnival file.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Rename Carnival
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 Select the carnival you wish to rename and push the \f2\cf4 Rename \f1\cf1 button.  The \f2\b\cf4 Rename Carnival\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  dialog will appear.  Enter the new name and push \f2\cf4 Rename\f1\cf1 .
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Compact Carnival
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 The carnival files will grow larger the more they are used.  Often there is space inside the file that can be recovered by compacting it.  Occasional a file can become corrupted.  Compacting the file will also repair any corruption that may have effected the file.  
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 The compact action actually creates a completely new compacted and repaired file.  The original carnival file is renamed to \plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'93\f1 original_carnival.mdb.old\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'94\f1 .
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Select the file you wish to Compact and push the \f2\cf4 Compact\f1\cf1  button.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 If the carnival has been compacted previously then it is likely that a \plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'93\f1 original_carnival.mdb.old\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'94\f1  file exists.  You are alerted to this fact and asked whether you wish to overwrite the \plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'93\f1 original_carnival.mdb.old\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'94\f1  file.  
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Delete Carnival
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 Select the carnival and push the \f2\cf4 Delete\f1\cf1  button.  Firstly, You must confirm that you wish to remove the carnival from the \b Sports Administrator\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  list of carnivals.  If you answer \plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'93\f1 Yes\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'94\f1  then the carnival will be removed from the list.  You must then confirm whether you wish to delete the file associated with the carnival.  If you answer \plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'93\f1 Yes\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'94\f1  the file will be deleted.  You will be informed that the carnival file cannot be deleted if it is not in the location specified in the \b Sports Administrator\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 .
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Make Active
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 Use the \b\cf4 Make Active\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  button to make the carnival active.  When a carnival is active it can be manipulated by the Sports Administrator.  Double clicking on the desired carnival will also make it active.
\par \pard\tx355 \b 
\par \pard\tx355 \fs22\cf5 Import Carnival List
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 After reinstalling or upgrading the \b Sports Administrator\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  the list of carnival files will be replaced by the default list contained in the installation.  If the old \plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'93\f1 sports.mde\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'94\f1  file (the main \b Sports Administrator\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  application file has not been deleted, then you can import all the old carnivals from it into the newly installed or upgraded version.  
\par \pard\tx355 To do this:
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Import Carnival List\f1\cf1  button.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Locate the old \plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'93\f1 Sports.mde\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'94\f1  file and push open.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Any carnivals that don\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'92\f1 t already exist in the \b Sports Administrator\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  will be added to the list.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:0001}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Maintain teams}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L40}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Maintain, Teams;Teams, Edit}
\b\fs32 How to Maintain Teams that compete in a Carnival\cf4 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par Teams competing in the carnival are maintained \f2\cf4 Maintain Teams\f1\cf1  button on the Main Menu.  This will display the \f2\b\cf4 Team Summary\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  form.  This form shows all the teams that have been entered into the carnival.  The Summary form will also display whether or not a Team is included in the \b current carnival\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 .
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Adding a Team
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Add Team\f1\b\cf1  \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 button.  This will display the \f2\b\cf4 Team Details\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  form.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Enter the information.  
\par \pard\li715\fi-355\tx715 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Code:  A 7 character or less code that represents the team
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Name: The full name of the team.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Competitor Pool: The number of individuals the team was drawn from.  For example, this could be the size of the school or district.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Include: Tick this box to include the team in the carnival
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Details: Any extra details about the team,
\par \pard\tx715 
\par \pard\tx715 \b Note: \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 The team will only been included in the carnival if the \f2\cf4 Included\f1\cf1  check box is checked.
\par \pard\tx715 
\par \pard\tx715 \b\fs22\cf5 Edit a Team
\par \pard\tx715 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Select the Team to edit.  
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Edit Team \f1\cf1 button.  This will display the \f2\b\cf4 Team Details\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  form for that Team.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Modify any information and push \b\cf4 Close\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 .
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Deleting a Team
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Select the Team you wish to delete.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \b\cf4 Delete Team\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  button.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 To delete multiple teams left click on the record selector of the first team in the team summary list.  Holding the mouse button down, drag the pointer to select multiple teams.  Once all the teams are selected let go of the mouse button.  Then push the \plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'93\f1 Delete\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'94\f1  button the keyboard (not on the form).
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b Note\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : Caution is needed when deleting a Team from the carnival database.  This action will remove all competitors in the current carnival who are associated with the deleted Team.  Also, the information relating to event records will also be affected.  The Team that holds record(s) for events will no longer be known if that team is deleted.  It is suggested that a team be deleted only after serious consideration.\b\fs32\cf4 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Allocate Extra Points
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 It is sometimes necessary to extra points to a team
\par \pard\tx355 Push the \b\cf4 Allocate Extra Points\cf1  \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 button.  This will display the \b Special Points Allocation \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 form.
\par \pard\tx355 Choose the team you wish to allocate extra points for.
\par \pard\tx355 Enter the number of points and (optional) the reason for the points.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b Note: \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 This option allows the carnival organise to assign points for non-events such as war cries, cheer leading, etc.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L45}
\b\fs22\cf5 Allocate Lanes
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 Push the \b\cf4 Allocate Lanes\cf1  \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 button.  This will display the \b Default Lane Allocation\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  form.
\par \pard\tx355 Enter the lane and choose the Team to who the lane is allocated.
\par \pard\tx355 \b Note:\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  This enables the Sports Administrator to automatically place competitors into the appropriate lanes when they are added to an event.  The \b\cf4 Refresh Order\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  button puts the list in lane order.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\cf4 Update Lanes for All Events\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  button will update the lane allocation for all competitors in all events.  This option should be used with care as it will effect the lane allocation of all final levels.  
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:0002}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Pointscales}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L50}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Pointscales}
\b\fs32\cf1 How to Maintain Point Scales
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par Point Scales allow you to assign different points to individual events. For example, a grand final can receive more points than a heat.  You can set up as many Point Scales as you need.
\par 
\par Open the \f2\b\cf4 PointScale\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  form by clicking the \f2\cf4 Maintain Point Scales\f1\cf1  button on the \f2\b\cf4 Main Menu\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 .
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Adding a Point Scale
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Click the \f2\cf4 Add Pointscale\f1\cf1  button.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Enter the name of the new point scale.  The name must be no more than 10 characters. 
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \b\cf4 Create\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  button.  The new Point Scale will appear in the list on the left.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Click on the new point scale.  You will see the points allocated to the point scale in the table on the right.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Enter the place and points allocated for the place in this table.
\par \f3\b\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Note\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : It is important that every possible place that may be gained in an event be allocated the correct points (if not place is setup then that competitor will receive no points).  
\par \pard\tx355 \b 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 You can enter a large number of points quickly by using the \f2\cf4 Allocate Default Points\f1\cf1  button.  To do this:
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Specify how many places you wish to allocate
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Enter the number of points to be allocated to each of these places
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Allocate Default Points\f1\cf1  button
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Note: No existing places will be removed or overridden by performing this action.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Deleting a Point Scale
\par \pard\tx355 \fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \plain\f3\fs18\cf1 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Select the pointscale you wish to delete by clicking on it.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Delete\f1\cf1  button.
\par \pard\tx355 Note: If the pointscale is being used in an event it cannot be deleted.  You must first remove all references to this pointscale before it can be deleted.
\par \pard\tx355 \b 
\par \pard\tx355 \fs22\cf5 Renaming a Point Scale
\par \pard\tx355 \fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \plain\f3\fs18\cf1 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Click the \f2\cf4 Rename Pointscale\f1\cf1  button.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Enter the name of the new point scale and push the \f2\cf4 Rename\f1\cf1  button.
\par \pard\tx355 \b 
\par \pard\tx355 \fs22\cf5 Update All Points
\par \pard\tx355 \fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 On occasions it may desirable to update all points.  This is especially true if you have modified the points allocated in a pointscale. To ensure that the new points scale is being used by all the appropriate events use the \f2\cf4 Update all Points \f1\cf1 button.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 It also possible that points have not been properly assigned to competitors.  This is rare and usually is a result of user error.  To ensure that all places have been assigned the correct points, push the \f2\cf4 Update all Points\f1\cf1  button.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b Note\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : This operation effects points allocated to competitors in ALL events without exception. If points have been edited manually, they will be overwritten with the specified point scale.
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:000a}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Events, Maintain}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L60}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Maintain, Events}
\b\fs32\cf1 How to Maintain Events
\par \pard \plain\f1\strike\fs20\cf2 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 To maintain events click on the \f2\cf4 Maintain Event Details\f1\cf1  button on the \f2\b\cf4 Main Menu\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 . A \plain\f1\fs20 summary\cf1  of the existing events will be displayed.  This form allows you to add, delete, copy and modify existing events.
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Adding Events
\par \pard \fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Click the \b\cf4 Add Event\cf1  \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 button.  This will display a form requesting the name of the new event.  
\par Enter the name of the new event and push \b\cf4 Create\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 .  If the name you have entered has already been used you will be asked to re-enter a new name.  All events must have a unique name.  
\par A new event will be created and an empty \uldb \f2\cf2 Event Details\plain\fs20\cf2 {\v L390}\f1\cf1  form will be opened in which you can enter the event details.
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Copying an Event
\par \pard \fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Select the event that you wish to copy.
\par Click the \f2\cf4 Copy Event\f1\cf1  button.  This will display a form requesting the name of the new event.  
\par Enter the name of the new event and push \f2\cf4 Create\f1\cf1 .  If the name you have entered has already been used you will be asked to re-enter a new name.  All events must have a unique name.  
\par A new event will be created and displayed in the Event Summary form.
\par Double click the event to modify its details.
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Deleting an Event
\par \pard \fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Select the event that you wish to delete by clicking on it.
\par Push the \f2\cf4 Delete Event\f1\cf1  button.  You will be requested to verify your action.  \b Note that you cannot "undelete" a deleted event.\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Editing an Event
\par \pard \fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Select the event that you wish to edit by clicking on it.
\par Push the \f2\cf4 Edit Event\f1\cf1  button.  The \f2\b\cf4 Event Details\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  screen will be displayed on which you can make any modifications.
\par \b OR \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 double-click the event you wish to modify.
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Updating Records for All Events
\par \pard \fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\fs20 Push the \cf4 Update Event Records\plain\fs20  button to update the records for every event in the carnival.  This option allows you to ensure that all events have been checked for new records.  A record is added to the record list by determining whether the existing record has been beaten or equaled.  If so, the new record is added along with competitor and team details.
\par \f1\cf1 The records can be printed in full from the \f2\b\cf4 Carnival Statistics\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  form.  
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:000b}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Competitors. Maintain}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L70}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Maintain;Maintain, Competitors}
\b\fs32\cf1 How to Maintain Competitors
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par To maintain competitors open the \f2\b\cf4 Competitors Summary \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 form by clicking the \cf4 Maintain Competitors\cf1  button on the \f2\b\cf4 Main Menu\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 .
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 
\par Adding a Competitor to a Carnival Manually
\par \pard \fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \plain\f3\fs18\cf1 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Click the \f2\cf4 Add Competitor\f1\b  \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 button.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Enter the Competitor details for Team, Names, Sex, \plain\f1\fs20 Age and Date of Birth\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Deleting a Competitor
\par \pard\tx355 \fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \plain\f3\fs18\cf1 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Select the competitor in the list.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \b\cf4 Delete Competitor\cf1  \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 button or the delete key.
\par \pard\tx355 Note: This action is irreversible.  When a competitor is deleted, all the events that the competitor was enrolled in are also deleted.
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Editing Competitor Details
\par \pard\tx355 \fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \plain\f3\fs18\cf1 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Choose \cf4 Competitors\cf1  from the Menu and select \cf4 Maintain\cf1 .
\par \f3\b\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Double Click\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  the appropriate competitor in the list.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Make modifications and push the \f2\cf4 Save\f1\cf1  button.
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Rolling Competitors Into the Next Year
\par \pard\tx355 \fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \plain\f3\fs18\cf1 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Competitor Roll Over \plain\fs20 button\f1\cf1  to increase the age of all competitors by one year.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Competitor Roll Back\f1\cf1  button to decrease the age of all competitors by one year.
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Bulk Maintenance of Competitors
\par \pard\tx355 \fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \plain\f3\fs18\cf1 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Bulk Maintenance\f1\cf1  button.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Select the competitors that you wish to delete by using the filter at the top of the form and by checking or un-checking the appropriate Tag boxes.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Delete Tagged Competitors \f1\cf1 button.  All the tagged competitors will be deleted.\plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx355 \cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Create Competitor Teams
\par \pard\tx355 \fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Often it is desirable to have competitors that can represent an entire team.  This is particularly useful for relays and other team events.  To create a \plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'93\f1 team competitor\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'94\f1  for each age/gender division push the \f2\cf4 Create Team Competitors\f1\cf1  button.
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Competitors, Enter in Events}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L80}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Competitors;Enroll in Events;Enrolled Competitors;Events}
\b\fs32\cf1 How to Enter Competitors in an Event
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par On the \f2\b\cf4 Main Menu\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  click the \f2\cf4 Enter Results\f1\cf1  button. This will display the \f2\b\cf4 Competitor Events Summary\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  form.
\par 
\par Click on the different parts of the form below for an explanation of what they do.
\par 
\par \cf4 \{bmc bm1.SHG\}\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} How to generate reports}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L90}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Reports, Generating}
\b\fs32\cf1 How to Generate Reports
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 There are a large variety of reports that can be generated from the Sports Administrator.  All "statistical" reports are generated by going to the  \i Carnival Statistics\plain\f1\fs20\cf1   form from the \i Main Menu\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 .
\par 
\par This form allows you to select or "check" which reports you wish to generate.  Once you have selected the desired reports, push the \b\cf4 Preview Selected Reports\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  button.  This will display the reports.
\par 
\par Once the report has been displayed it can be viewed, printed or closed.  To print the report go to the \b Utilities\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  menu option, choose \b Print\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  and then \b Print\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  or \b Print Set up.
\par \pard 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Some reports can be customised by specifying what Events or Teams you want in the report.  Do this by checking the appropriate ones in the list shown.  A number of reports also have an edit box beside the report name.  Enter a number (or date for the \i Records set on  \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 report) to control the number of detail records displayed.
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Event Summary Form}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L100}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Events}
\b\fs32\cf1 Event Summary Form
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Events can be created, deleted and edited from this form.
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Enter Competitor Results}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L110}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Competitors, Enter Results}
\b\fs32\cf1 Enter Competitor Results
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par The form enables entry of competitors into events.  
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Event Details
\par \pard \fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 The details of the event that is being edited are shown in the top left of the form.  These details can not be modified on this form.  They can be modified in the \b Maintain Event Details\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  form.
\par The Event Number in the top right corner of the form can be modified.
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Final Level Details
\par \pard \fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Below the event details section of the form is the Final details.  The event final level and event heat are displayed here.  
\par The \b Complete\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  checkbox shows whether the \ul heat\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  has been completed.  This value can be modified by the user.
\par This value is automatically updated after the user enters the places or times for competitors.  It is assumed that the heat has been completed if every competitor in the event has been assigned either a place or a result.  If this condition is not satisfied then the Sports Administrator will not set the heat as completed.
\par \pard The Sports Administrator will prompt the user if it is necessary to overwrite existing places.  On occasions the results entered will not reconcile with the places gained.  This is especially true for short sprint events and when using individual stop watches.  The user may "fudge" the times so that they equate to the places OR enter the places manually.  It is in this latter instance that automatic calculation of places using the "inaccurate" times will yield "incorrect" places.
\par \pard 
\par The \plain\f1\fs20 status of this event\cf1  is shown beside the final level.  This can be modified by the user but it is not recommended.  The status colour changes to help identify the status of the event quickly.
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Competitor List
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par The largest area at the bottom of the screen is where competitors can be entered into events and where their results can be recorded.
\par \cf4 \{bml bm2.BMP\}\cf1 
\par The \b\cf4 lane\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  is automatically entered by the Sports Administrator.  The appropriate lane is determined by looking up what default lane(s) have been assigned to that competitors team.  The lane value can be set manually by the user if necessary.  If the competitors in the event has been determined by using the Sports Administrator \b Promotion\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  function then the lanes will be determined by \b Promotion Lanes\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  set up in the \b Event Details \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 form.  If no default lanes have been configured then the competitor will be assigned lane 0.  \b Note \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 that those competitors who have been assigned lane 0 will not appear in some reports.  However, the results gained by these competitors will be included in the grand totals.
\par \pard The \b\cf4 Team, Pts and PIN\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  field can not be modified.
\par The \cf4 c\b ompetitor name\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  must be selected from the list (see \plain\f1\fs20 form navigation\cf1  help screen).  By default, only the competitors who meet satisfy the age  criteria will be shown.  If it is necessary to select a competitor who does not satisfy the age criteria, check the \b Select from all names\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  check box on the top right of the form.  The Sports Administrator will then display all names in the drop down box.  \b Note\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : The competitor's details can be accessed by \b double clicking\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  on the competitor's name.
\par \pard Either the \b\cf4 place, the result \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 or both can be entered.  The Sports Administrator will automatically determine places from the given results.  (See the see \plain\f1\fs20 form navigation\cf1  help screen for an explanation of how to enter results.)  Points will be allocated when a place is given to a competitor.  If no place is assigned, or the place is set to 0 or the place is deleted then no points will be assigned.  Tied results are handled in the following way.  Consider these sample results from a 100m Sprint:
\par \pard Results: 10sec; 11sec; 12sec; 12sec; 13sec     would give the following places
\par Places: 1; 2; 4; 4; 5
\par or
\par Results: 10sec; 11sec; 12sec; 12sec; 12sec; 13sec     would give the following places
\par Places: 1; 2; 5; 5; 5; 6
\par 
\par The button \cf4 \{bmc bm3.BMP\} \cf1 is used to add a memo to the competitor.  The primary use for this function is for storing the names of relay team competitors.  However this will not attribute any points gained to those individual competitors.
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Enter Results in Place Order
\par \pard \plain\f0\fs24 
\par \f1\fs20\cf1 This action opens another form where the competitors lanes and results can be entered beside the place gained.  This form is only useful when the competitors lanes are know prior to the running of the event.  Some computerized timing systems will only give results in place order with the competitor's lane beside the place gained.  This form allow the user to enter the results into the Sports Administrator directly from the timing sheet received from computerized timing system.
\par \pard 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Calculate places
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par It may be desirable on occasions to manually calculate places for the event.  This option would normally not be needed.
\par \b 
\par \pard \fs22\cf5 Maintain Competitors
\par \pard \fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 This button opens the Competitors Summary form where competitor details can be modified, and competitors can be added or deleted.
\par \b 
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Importing Competitors}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L120}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Competitors, Importing}
\b\fs32\cf1 Import Competitors
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par It is often desirable to import the names of all potential competitors from another database (an administration database say).  The \b Sports Administrator\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  facilitates this action.
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Importing Competitors from a Data File
\par \pard \fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\li345\fi-355\tx345 \plain\f3\fs18\cf1 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Click the \f2\cf4 Import Competitors\f1\cf1  button on the \f2\b\cf4 Main Menu\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 .
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Enter the text file name or locate it by pushing the \f2\cf4 Locate\f1\cf1  button.  Ensure that is in the \uldb \f2\cf2 correct format\plain\fs20\cf2 {\v L330}\f1\cf1 
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 View Text File\f1\b  \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 button.  
\par \f3\b\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Note\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : New data will be automatically appended to that already displayed in the temporary table.  If this is not desirable, push \plain\fs20 the \cf4 Clear Temporary Data\f1\b  \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 button to remove all the data in the list.  This will not effect the Carnival Database.  The information stored in the temporary table will only be added to the Carnival when it is imported by pushing the \f2\cf4 Import Competitors\f1\cf1  button.
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 T\plain\f1\fs20 he information contained in the text file will appear on the form for you to check before importing into the Carnival Database.  Changes can be made here if necessary.  Competitors can be deleted, added, or details changed.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 If you are satisfied that the data has been imported correctly, push the \f2\cf4 Import Competitors\f1\cf1  \plain\f1\fs20 button.  This will add all the competitors in the preview table to the Sports Administrator.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b Note\plain\f1\fs20 : 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Either an Age or DOB value must be present for each competitor.\line

\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 If an Age value has not been entered then the Age of the competitor will be determined from the DOB value.  The cut-off date for an age group is determined by the date in the \f2\cf4 Age Cut-Off Date\plain\f1\fs20  box.  The age is calculated by:\line
    \fs16 Any competitor with a DOB on or after the specified day = Current Year \plain\f0\fs16 \'96\f1  Birth Year\line
     Any competitor with a DOB before the specified day = Current Year \plain\f0\fs16 \'96\f1  Birth Year + 1\line
\fs20 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 If a DOB value has not been entered then the DOB of the competitor is set at the first day in the year the competitor was born.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Because calculations are done based on the date set in the computer it is important to ensure that that date is correct.\b\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Lane Allocation}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L130}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Lane Allocation}
\fs32 Lane Allocation
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par It is necessary to allocate a lane or lanes to each school or house that will be competing in the carnival.  When a competitor is enrolled in an event, his or her lane is determined by the house or school he or she belongs to.  If the corresponding house or school does not have a lane allocated to it, or if all the lane(s) have already been allocated to competitors, then the competitor is allocated lane 0.  
\par 
\par Competitors allocated lane 0  and who are in an event that has\b  Limited Lanes\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  (this is specified by the report style) will not appear in the event lists.   This does not apply to Unlimited Lanes events.
\par \pard 
\par If necessary, lanes can be specified in the Competitor Events form on a competitor by competitor basis.
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Create Carnival Disks}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L140}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Carnival, Create Disks}
\b\fs32\cf1 Create Carnival Disks
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par This is a simple method of entering both competitor names and events.  Once the events have been completely set up, the \b Sports Administrator\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  will generate a separate text file for each team in the carnival.  These files can then be given to the appropriate representative who will enter the names of the competitors against the appropriate event.
\par 
\par To \f2\b\cf4 Create Carnival Disks\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 :
\par 
\par \pard\li395\fi-275\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Select the teams to generate the files for (tick the appropriate boxes).
\par \pard\li395\fi-275\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Specify the gender format to be used in the generated text file.  In some instances the carnival organiser may prefer to have the events described as "girls or boys" as opposed to "female or male".
\par \pard\li395\fi-275\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Specify the Heat format.  Likewise, the heats can be presented in either alpha or numeric format.
\par \pard\li395\fi-275\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Enter the location that the file created by the Sports Administrator will be saved.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 The file generated consists of the following:
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\li275\tx355 \f4 Reference Number, House/School Code, Gender, Age, Event Description, Heat, Competitor Number, Given Name, Surname
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \f1 A section of a file is shown below:
\par \pard\li255\tx355 \f4 
\par \pard\li255\tx355 ...
\par \pard\li255\tx355 1769,CAN,Girls,13,Backstroke 50m,B,1, ,
\par \pard\li255\tx355 1769,CAN,Girls,13,Backstroke 50m,B,2, ,
\par \pard\li255\tx355 1769,CAN,Girls,13,Backstroke 50m,B,3, ,
\par \pard\li255\tx355 1908,CAN,Boys,13,Freestyle Relay 4x50m,A,1, Team, Relay
\par \pard\fi255\tx355 1907,CAN,Girls,13,Freestyle Relay 4x50m,A,1, Team, Relay
\par \pard\fi255\tx355 ...
\par \pard\tx355 \f1 
\par \pard\tx355 \b Note:\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  The words Team and Relay are automatically entered for any relay event.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 The team representative must then open the file in any plain text editor and enter the given name and surname of the competitor for each event.  It is important that the file then be saved as a plain text file for successful import.\plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Importing Carnival Disks}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L150}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Carnival;Carnival, Importing Disks}
\b\fs32\cf1 Import Carnival Disks
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par Once the carnival disks have been returned, they can be imported into the \b Sports Administrator\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 .  The file (or files) are first imported into a temporary table where their accuracy can be easily checked.  Once you are happy with this temporary data it can then be imported into the carnival itself.
\par 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 If there is already data shown in the table on the \f2\b\cf4 Import Carnival Disks \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 form which you no longer need, push the \f2\cf4 Clear Temporary Data \f1\cf1 button to remove it.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Enter (or locate) the file to be imported.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Show Text File\f1\cf1  button to display the text file data in the temporary table.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Check that the data displayed is accurate.  Changes can be made to the data in the table on the form itself.  If it is necessary to re-import the data from the text file, push the Clear temporary Data button to remove the text file data from the temporary table, make whatever modifications to the text file that are necessary, and then re-import the data using the \f2\cf4 Show Text File\f1\cf1  button.
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Import All Displayed Data\f1\cf1  button to move the data into the carnival.  Note that this cannot be undone so please be sure to check the data before performing this action.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 Note:  It is possible to import any number of the text files into the temporary table and then do a single \f2\cf4 Import All Displayed Data\f1\cf1  action to move the data into the carnival.  However, it is usually advisable to move data into the carnival one file at a time.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Future Final Level}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L160}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Final Levels, Future}
\b\fs32 Future Final Level
\par \pard\li735\fi-475 \fs20 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Any Final Level that is yet to have competitors promoted into it.  There will only be future events if there are a number of Final Levels.  Under normal circumstances future events are filled with competitors by using the automated promotion option on the Competitor Events Summary form.
\par 
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Active Final Levels}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L170}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Final Levels, Active}
\b\fs32\cf1 Active Final Level
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Any Final Level in which heats are 'currently' being contested.  The Active Final Level at the commencement of the carnival is always the Final Level with the highest number.  Note that at any particular time during a Carnival, the Active Final Level may differ from event to event.  This is due to the following:
\par 
\par Suppose there are two Final Levels (level 1 & 0) for both the 100m event and the 400m event.  Suppose also that the 100m event is run to completion first and then the 400m event is conducted.  At the commencement of the carnival both events have the same Active Final Level (i.e. Final Level 1).  The 100m event is run first until Final Level 1is completed.  At the completion of this Final Level the best competitors are promoted into the next (and in this case the last) Final Level.  Now the Active Final Level for the 100m event is 0.  However the Active Final Level for the 400m event remain unchanged.  It is still 1 since Final Level 1 is the Final Level that is 'currently' being contested.\plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Completed Final Levels}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L180}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Final Levels, Completed}
\b\fs32\cf1 Completed Final Level
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Any Final Level in which \b all \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 the heats within the Final Level have been completed but not yet promoted.  The Results list shows the completed status of individual heats.  When all the heats within a Final Level have been completed then the Sports Administrator automatically marks that Final Level as completed.  Only Completed Final levels can be promoted.
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Promoted Final Level}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L190}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Final Levels, Promoted}
\b\fs32\cf1 Promoted Final Level
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Any Final Level that has been completed and then promoted.  Note that promotion is not automatic.  The Sports Administrator automates the process of promoting competitors but it requires that you tell it when you want Final Levels to be promoted.
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Showing finals in the Competitors Events Summary}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L200}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Competitors Events;Competitors Events, Summary;Show Finals}
\b\fs32\cf1 Competitor Events Summary - Show Finals\cf6 
\par \pard 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 The \b Show Finals\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  options allow the Carnival organiser to filter the events in the carnival to a more manageable size.  The status of the desired \plain\f1\fs20 Final Levels\cf1  can be selected to reduce the number of heats shown in the Results list.
\par 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\b\fs18\cf2 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Future \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Finals
\par \f3\b\fs18\cf2 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Active \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Finals
\par \f3\b\fs18\cf2 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Completed \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Finals
\par \f3\b\fs18\cf2 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Promoted \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Finals
\par \pard\li735\fi-475\tx355 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\b\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Level\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : Only the Final Level that is specified will be displayed in the Results list.  A '*' entered in the Level field will not limit the Results list at all.
\par \pard\li735\fi-475\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Showing finals in the Competitors Events Summary}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L210}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Competitors Events Summary, Show Finals}
\b\fs32\cf1 Competitor Events Summary - Show\fs20 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20 
\par The show options allow the Carnival Organiser to further limit what is displayed in the results list on the right of the form.  The Results can be filtered by specifying a sex, an age division, and Event or an Event number.  Lastly, the Results can also be filtered by specifying whether the Heat has been completed or not.
\par 
\par \b Note\plain\f1\fs20 : The checkboxes have 3 states - On, Off and Greyed.  Greyed indicates that the field is not to be used in the filtering process.  For example, if Heat Complete were greyed, then both the completed and incomplete heats would be shown in the Results list.
\par \pard 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Competitors Events Summary}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L220}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Competitors Events Summary, Results}
\b\fs32\cf1 Competitor Events Summary - Results\cf6 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par The Results List shows all the Heats that satisfy the given filter criteria.  The following fields are displayed:
\par 
\par \pard\li1375\fi-1135\tx1355 #: \tab The event number
\par Event: \tab The event description
\par Sex: \tab The gender of the heat
\par Age: \tab The age division
\par Final/Heat: \tab The Final Level that the heat belongs to and the Heat Number that the heat is within that Final Level
\par Complete: \tab Shows whether the heat has been completed or not.  Note that this shows the status of an individual heat, not a Final Level\plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Promoting Events}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L230}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Competitors Events Summary;Competitors Events Summary, Promote All;Promoting Events}
\b\fs32\cf1 Competitor Events Summary - Promote All\cf4 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20 The Promote All button will search for all events which have a completed final level.  When an event is found it is displayed in a dialog and you asked whether you want to promote it.  You are also given the option to answer yes to all events if that is desired or cancel the action completely.
\par 
\par Note that only completed final levels for an event that are \b not \plain\f1\fs20 in final level 0 are able to be promoted.  
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Promoting Selected Events}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L240}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Competitors Events Summary, Promote Selected;Promoting Events}
\b\fs32\cf1 Competitor Events Summary - Promote Selected\cf6 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20 This action promotes only the highlighted event.
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Maintaining Event Order}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L250}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Events, Order}
\b\fs32\cf1 Maintain Event Order
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 The carnival organizer can specify in what order the events are to be run by giving each event an event number.  Event numbers they must be greater than 0 and less than the total number of events available.  
\par 
\par The sort options in the top right corner of the form allow the events to be ordered in the most convenient manner.  After the order is set, the \b\cf4 Refresh\plain\f1\fs20\cf4  \cf1 button needs to be pushed to reorder the event.
\par 
\par The \b\cf4 Switch Sex \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 check box determines how the sex field is ordered, either by female first or by male first.
\par \pard 
\par The \b\cf4 Default Order \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 button resists the sort options to their default state.
\par 
\par The \b\cf4 Auto Renumber \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 option allows the user to turn the Auto Renumbering off.  Sometimes it is easier to enter the event numbers without the Sports Administrator renumbering the other events automatically.  If this is the case simply turn the Auto Renumber option off.
\par 
\par The \b\cf4 Slide Numbers \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 up button will renumber all events starting from the first available number.  This is useful if an event is deleted after the event numbers have been entered.
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Generating Event Lists}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L260}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Event Lists;Event Lists, Generating}
\b\fs32 Generate Event Lists\cf4 
\par \pard \cf6 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Marshalling lists can be printed from the \f2\b\cf4 Generate Events Lists\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  form.  Open it by pushing the \f2\cf4 Generate Event Lists\f1\b  \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 button on the Main Menu.\b\cf4   
\par 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 The form allows you to:
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Specify which events you wish to generate list for.  Select the appropriate ones in the table on the left of the form.\line

\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Print \f2\cf4 Common Lists\f1\cf1 .  \line
To \b filter out\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  a particular set of events specify the Age, Gender, Final Level, Heat Number and Event Status.  If you want all events you can enter a wildcard (*) in any of the drop-down lists.  Do this by either typing an \plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'93\f1 *\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'94\f1  or by double-clicking on the field.  Lastly specify whether you want Detailed or Summary lists.  \line
\b Note\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : In most instances you will want to generate events lists for the \b Active \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 events only. \line
\line
Print \f2\cf4 Program of Events\f1\cf1 . Either a summary program or a detailed program can be printed.\line

\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Print \f2\cf4 Misc. Lists\f1\cf1 \line
Three miscellaneous lists can be generated.\line
\line
Generic Entry Sheets.  A simple sheet that allows for up to 12 entries for each event.  The titles in the tables on the sheets can be varied by entering a value for \f2\cf4 Heading 1\f1\cf1  and \f2\cf4 Heading 2\f1\cf1 .\line
\line
Team Lists.  These team lists can be used as generic marshalling lists.\line
\line
Name Tags.  Simple name tags can be generated.  The font size of the events listed on the name tags can be varied by specifying it on this form.\line

\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Carnival Statistics}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L270}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Statistics, Carnival}
\b\fs32 Carnival Statistics\cf4 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par The reports that are to be printed need to be selected by checking the check box associated with it.  Some reports are based on Teams or Events.  It is possible to determine how the reports are effected by the type of check box associated with it.  These reports will only display information on those Teams or Events that have been selected.  
\par 
\par Once the appropriate reports have been selected:
\par \pard\li415\fi-355\tx415 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Preview Selected Reports\f1\cf1  button to preview the reports (recommended)
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Print Selected Reports\f1\cf1  button to print the reports directly to the printer with out a preview
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Push the \f2\cf4 Generate HTML for Selected Reports\f1\cf1  button to create the HTML files for the selected HTML enabled reports (those with the ^ symbol).  The location of the template files and HTML destination folder must be set up prior to generating the HTML pages.  This is done in the \f2\b\cf4 Utilities \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 screen.
\par \pard\tx415 
\par \pard\tx415 Note that it is possible to limit the number of records outputted by some reports (marked with a \plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'93\f1 *\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'94\f1 ).  Enter the number of records to display in the \f2\cf4 Number of Records to Display \f1\cf1 field.
\par \pard\tx415 
\par \pard\tx415 The following reports are available:
\par \pard\tx415 
\par \pard\tx415 \b\fs22\cf5 Overall Results (Graph / HTML)
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 Shows the overall team results in the selected subjects.
\par \pard\tx415 
\par \pard\tx415 \b\fs22\cf5 Overall Results by Age (HTML)
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events, Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 Shows results broken by age.
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f0\fs24 
\par \pard\tx415 \f1\b\fs22\cf5 Overall Results by Gender (Graph / HTML)
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events, Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 Shows results broken by gender.
\par \pard\tx415 
\par \pard\tx415 \b\fs22\cf5 Overall Results by Gender / Age (Graph / HTML)
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events, Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 Shows results broken by gender and age.
\par \pard\tx415 
\par \pard\tx415 \b\fs22\cf5 Overall Results by Place (Graph)
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 Shows how many places were gained by each team.
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f0\fs24 
\par \pard\tx415 \f1\b\fs22\cf5 Cumulative Results (Graph)
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 Shows how each team was performing over the duration of the carnival.
\par \pard\tx415 \b\fs22\cf5 
\par \pard\tx415 Competitors Results by Team/Event 
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events, Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 
\par \pard\tx415 \b\fs22\cf5 Event Results (Graph / HTML)
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events, Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 
\par \pard\tx415 \b\fs22\cf5 Current Records (HTML)
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 
\par \pard\tx415 \b\fs22\cf5 Current Records-Mini
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 
\par \pard\tx415 \b\fs22\cf5 Records set on [___]
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events, Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 This report allows you to view all the records set on a particular day.  This is useful when the organiser needs to know what records have been set during the current carnival (or any previous carnival).  The date of the carnival can be selected from the drop down list.
\par \pard\tx415 \b 
\par \pard\tx415 \fs22\cf5 Competitor Places
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events, Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 This report shows the top x places gained in the selected events.  (x is given in the edit box beside the report name)
\par \pard\tx415 \b\fs22\cf5 
\par \pard\tx415 Competitor Results (HTML)
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events, Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 This report shows the top x places gained in the selected events.  (x is given in the edit box beside the report name)
\par \pard\tx415 \b\fs22\cf5 
\par \pard\tx415 Age Champions (HTML)
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events, Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 Reports the top x competitors in each age / gender group.
\par \pard\tx415 \b\cf2 
\par \pard\tx415 \fs22\cf5 Competitor Events (HTML)
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events, Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 The results gained by each competitor.  The report is ordered by team.
\par \pard\tx415 
\par \pard\tx415 \b\fs22\cf5 Competitor List by team
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 This is a general report that schools may find useful for result recording and marshalling.
\par \pard\tx415 \b\fs22\cf5 
\par \pard\tx415 Non Participants
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs16\cf1 (Effected by: Selected Events, Selected Teams)
\par \pard\tx415 \fs20 Shows which competitors did not compete in the selected events.
\par \pard\tx415 
\par \pard\tx415 \b 
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx415 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Event Records}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L280}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Events;Events, Records}
\b\fs32\cf1 Event Records\cf4 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf6 
\par \cf1 This form allows the carnival organiser to enter and view the current and past records for an event.
\par 
\par \pard \b\fs22\cf5 Add New Record\cf1 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \plain\f3\fs18\cf1 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Enter the competitor\plain\f0\fs20\cf1 \'92\f1 s details in the appropriate fields.  If the competitor is currently in the database then all the details can be added automatically by selecting the name from the \b Add Competitor \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 drop-down list.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Once the details have been added push the \b\cf4 Add New Record\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  button. The new record will be added to the record list.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Editing an Existing Record\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 An existing record can be edited by making the appropriate changes in the \b Event Record History\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  sub-form.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Deleting a Record(s)
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 A record(s) can be deleted by highlighting the \uldb \f2\cf2 record selectors\plain\fs20\cf2 {\v L370}\f1\cf1  of the desired record(s) and pushing the delete key on the keyboard.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \cf4 \{bmc bm4.BMP\}\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Competitor List Statistics}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L290}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Statistics, Competitor List}
\b\fs32\cf1 Statistics - Competitor List (by team)\cf4 
\par \pard 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 This report is not a statistical report.  It is included on this form because the option to specify which team(s) is available.  This report will generate a standard form that makes the recording of times and places simpler.
\par 
\par Note: It is possible that there will be a number of competitors who come under the "UNKNOWN" age group.  This is due to the way in which the event age groups are specified.  This report generate a list for each event age group, not for each competitor age group.  This means that all the 16_O (16 and over) competitors are found in the one list which is what is usually required.  However, if there is no event age group into which a competitor would normally fall, then he or she is included in the "UNKNOWN" category.  This would occur when there was a 17 year old competitor with no event age group that included 17 year olds (i.e.. no 15_O, 16_O, 17, 18_U, 19_U etc.)
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Form Navigation}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L310}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Navigation, Form}
\b\fs32\cf1 Form Navigation
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par There are a number of handy keys for navigating around the forms.  This is particularly useful for\b  Enter Competitors \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 form\b .\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 To move between fields on a form use the TAB key.\b 
\par \plain\f3\fs18\cf1 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 To move between the Main form and the sub form use the CTRL and TAB keys simultaneously.\b 
\par \plain\f3\fs18\cf1 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 To view a drop down list move the cursor to the list and push ALT and DOWN ARROW simultaneously.\b 
\par \plain\f3\fs18\cf1 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 To navigate in a list use the ARROW keys.\b 
\par \plain\f3\fs18\cf1 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 To manipulate the standard access form see the \plain\f1\fs20 Table Controls\cf1  help screen.\b 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} DOB and Age Fields}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L320}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} DOB and Age Fields}
\b\fs32\cf1 DOB and Age Fields
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par If you enter a DOB then the age field will be updated automatically.
\par 
\par If you enter an Age and no DOB has yet been entered, the DOB of birth will be set to the 1st of January in the year that the competitor was born.  This is set automatically since most carnivals do not require a DOB.  However the Sports Administrator does require this field.\b\fs32\cf6 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Importing Competitors format type}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L330}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Competitors, Import format type}
\b\fs32\cf1 Import Competitors Format Type\fs20\cf4 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par Competitor details can be imported from a standard text file.  The data file must be a standard text file with no formatting characters.  Most popular word processors support this format.  It is usually known as "Text Only" or "ASCII" format.  The data to be imported must meet following criteria.
\par 
\par \b 1. Short Format
\par 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Each line of text should have the following format:
\par 
\par \cf4 Given Name, Surname, House/School Code, Sex, Age, DOB
\par \cf1 
\par \b Important: Each field must be separated by a comma (,).  If a field is to be left blank (say the DOB field), the comma MUST be left in.  In this instance the line of text would look like:
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par George, Jetson, MOON, M, 17, 
\par Michael, Jackson, USA, M, , 1/2/67
\par 
\par \b Note: 
\par The age field will automatically be calculated if it is left blank and a DOB is given.  The House/School Code can be no longer than 7 characters.
\par 
\par The DOB field needs to be in the form "d/m/yyyy".  For example, "5/7/1982" or the "12/12/70".  
\par 
\par All fields are mandatory except the Age and DOB fields where at least one of these two fields must be present.
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Table Controls}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L340}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Table Controls}
\b\fs32\cf1 Table Controls\cf4 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 There are a number of ways of selecting and editing data found in the \i Sports Administrator\plain\f1\fs20\cf1   forms.  These selectors are shown in the following diagram.
\par \cf4 
\par \{bmc bm5.SHG\}
\par 
\par \cf1 Click on the different parts of the diagram to show how they are to be used.
\par 
\par See \plain\f1\fs20 Form Navigation\cf1  also.
\par \b\fs32\cf6 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Current Record}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L350}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Current Record}
\b\fs32\cf1 Current Record
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 The black triangle pointing right shows which record is current.  \b\fs32\cf6 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} New Record}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L360}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} New Record}
\b\fs32\cf1 New Record
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 The asterisk shows a new record.  If you wish to add another record, simple locate the record indicated by the asterisk and click in one of the fields.   Enter the required information and move off that field either by clicking elsewhere on the form or by using the tab key.  The new record will automatically be added to the database.
\par 
\par Note: The \i new record\plain\f1\fs20\cf1   indicator may not be present in some forms.  This is because the form is restricted to data entry only and so new records can not be added.
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} General Record Selector}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L370}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} General Record Selector}
\b\fs32\cf1 General Record Selector
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 The record selector can be used to select one or more records. 
\par 
\par To select one record:
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Click the record selector with the left mouse button.  This will change the selector to black and the triangle to white.
\par \pard\li415\fi-155\tx415 
\par \pard\tx415 To select multiple records:
\par \pard\li415\fi-355\tx415 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Click the record selector with the left mouse button and drag down or up.  This will change the selectors to black and set the current to be the first in the selection.
\par \pard\tx415 
\par Once a record selector(s) has been selected you can:
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355\tx415 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Delete Record(s):  Push the keyboard delete key
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Copy Record(s): Hold down the CTRL key and push the INS key
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Cut Record(s):  Hold down the SHIFT key and push the DEL key
\par \pard\fi175\tx415 
\par \pard\tx415 If you have copied or cut record(s) you can:
\par \pard\li415\fi-355\tx415 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Paste Record(s):  Place the cursor where you want the records to be pasted.  Then hold down the SHIFT key and push the DEL key
\par \pard\tx415 
\par \pard\tx415 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx415 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Drop-down List}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L380}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Drop-down List}
\b\fs32\cf1 Drop Down List
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 The list can be displayed by pushing the black triangle at the right side of the list  It can also be opened by holding pushing the ALT key and the DOWN arrow key simultaneously.  An item can then be selected from the list either by using the mouse or the cursor keys.
\par 
\par An item can also be selected by typing in the list box itself.\b\fs32\cf6 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Event Details}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L390}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Events, Details}
\b\fs32\cf1 Event Details\cf4 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par The term "Event" describes any single \b type \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 of event.  For example, an Event might be "100m Sprint", "High Jump", "50m Freestyle Relay".  It is important to understand that an event \b does not incorporate either \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Age, Sex or Heat distinctions.  An event is made up of the following:
\par 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18\cf2 \'b7\tab \ul \f1\ul\fs20 Description\plain\f1\fs20\cf2 {\v L400}\cf1   \tab \tab \tab 
\par \f3\fs18\cf2 \'b7\tab \uldb \f2\fs20 Report Style\plain\fs20\cf2 {\v L410}\f1\cf1 
\par \f3\fs18\cf2 \'b7\tab \ul \f1\ul\fs20 Lane / Competitor Count\plain\f1\fs20\cf2 {\v L420}\cf1 
\par \f3\fs18\cf2 \'b7\tab \ul \f1\ul\fs20 Event Units\plain\f1\fs20\cf2 {\v L430}\cf1 
\par \f3\fs18\cf2 \'b7\tab \ul \f1\ul\fs20 Number of Entrants\plain\f1\fs20\cf2 {\v L440}\cf1 \tab 
\par \f3\fs18\cf2 \'b7\tab \uldb \f2\fs20 Lane Promotion\plain\fs20\cf2 {\v L520}\f1\cf1 
\par \f3\fs18\cf2 \'b7\tab \uldb \f2\fs20 Age Divisions\plain\fs20\cf2 {\v L450}\f1\cf1 \tab \tab 
\par \f3\fs18\cf2 \'b7\tab \uldb \f2\fs20 Heats\plain\fs20\cf2 {\v L460}\f1\b\cf1 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\uldb\fs20\cf2 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\fs20 The \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  has a feature that helps you to quickly \uldb \cf2 Set up Heats\plain\fs20\cf2 {\v L530}\plain\fs20 .\f1\cf1 
\par \pard\li295\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs22\cf5 Edit Records
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 This option can be activated by either pushing the \f2\cf4 Edit Record\f1\cf1  button or double-clicking the event record in the \b Age Division\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  section.  The \uldb \f2\cf2 Event Record\plain\fs20\cf2 {\v L280}\f1\cf1  form will be displayed.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\qc\tx355 \cf4 \{bmc bm6.SHG\}\cf1 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Event Description}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L400}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Events, Description}
\b\fs32 Description
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 The name of the event is called the event \b Description\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 .  The event \b Description \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 should never include an age or gender.  The age and gender details are specified in the \b Age Divisions \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 section.  
\par 
\par \b Correct \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Naming Convention:
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 100m Sprint
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 High Jump
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 4x50m Freestyle Relay
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b Wrong \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 Naming Convention:
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\b\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Girls \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 100m Sprint
\par \f3\b\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 15 Year Boys\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  High Jump
\par \f3\b\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Girls \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 4x50m Freestyle Relay
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Report Style}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L410}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Report Style}
\b\fs32\cf1 Report Style\cf6 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\f1\fs20 The Sports Administrator has a number of ways of presenting event lists.  This is necessary due to the fact that events vary both in their format and in the number of competitors allowed to compete.  The sports administrator provides a number of reports that cater for almost every event type.  The following report styles are available:
\par 
\par \b Limited Lanes\plain\f1\fs20 : Most sprint events would use this report style.  
\par 
\par \b Unlimited Lanes\plain\f1\fs20 :  Events such as 1500m, marathons, cross countries etc would use this report style.
\par \pard 
\par \b Relay Limited Lanes\plain\f1\fs20 : Most relays would use this report style. The reason for a separate report is to enable the inclusion of the names of the competitors that make up a relay team.  A relay can use the Limited Lanes report style if so desired.
\par 
\par \b Field (3 Attempts)\plain\f1\fs20 : All field events that allow only three attempts would use this report style.  This would include Long Jump, Javelin, Discus etc.
\par 
\par \b Field (High Jump)\plain\f1\fs20 : High jump and Pole Vault are two examples of events that would need to use this report style.
\par \pard 
\par \i (Note: Please contact the distributor of the Sports Administrator if more report styles are needed.)\plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Lane / Competitor Count}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L420}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Lane / Competitor Count}
\b\fs32\cf1 Lane / Competitor Count\cf6 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par The number of competitors or lanes that will compete in any one race must be entered.  This will enable the Sports Administrator to generate reports with the correct number of lanes.  The Lane/ Competitor Count will also determine how many competitors are promoted into the next Final Level.
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Event Units}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L430}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Events, Units}
\b\fs32\cf1 Event Units\cf6 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par The Units that an event is measured in must be entered.  The Units value is used when displaying and entering results.  It is necessary to enter the result that a competitor gains in the units specified.  For example, the 400m Sprint event is usually measured in seconds.  If however a competitor completes the race in 1 minute and 7.5 seconds the result must still be entered in seconds (67.5 seconds).  \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Number of Entrants}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L440}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Events, Number of Entrants}
\b\fs32\cf1 Number of Entrants\cf6 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par This field is used for generating carnival disks.  If carnival disks are not needed then this field can be ignored.
\par 
\par Some events can have a number of entrants from the same team.  For example, if there are 8 lanes at the athletics track and only 4 competing teams, the carnival organizer may wish to race two competitors from each house or school in each event.  This would require an entry of 2 in the Number of Entrants field.
\par \i 
\par \plain\f1\b\fs20\cf1 Note\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : There should be a correlation between the number of entrants and the lane allocations.  If each team can have two competitors in each race then each team should have 2 lanes allocated to it.
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Age Divisions}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L450}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Events, Age Divisions}
\b\fs32\cf1 Age Divisions
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par Within each event there are Age Divisions.  An Age Division is made up of an age group and a gender.  For example, within the Event "100m Sprint" there will be a number of Age Divisions.  These might include 13 year Girls, 13 Year Boys, Open Girls, Open Boys etc.    
\par 
\par Under normal circumstances the ages would be numeric values such as 13, 14, 15 and so on.  However there are some instances where more flexibility is required.  Events may be open to all individuals age 15 and under or age 16 and over.  Or an event may be open to all individuals.  
\par \pard 
\par The following can be used to allow different age groups to compete in the same event:
\par 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 ??\b\cf4 _U\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : This specifies the age bracket ?? years and Under.  So, 15_U would allow all competitors who are 15 years \b and \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 under to be selected in the race.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 ??\b\cf4 _O\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : This specifies the age bracket ?? years and Over.  So, 17_O would allow all competitors who are 17 years \b and \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 over to be selected in the race.
\par \f3\b\fs18\cf4 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 OPEN\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : This specifies an open age bracket.  That is, any competitor may compete in this event.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 The details of the Record field can be viewed and or modified by double-clicking the Record field.\plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Heats}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L460}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Events, Heats;Heats}
\b\fs32\cf1 Heats
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par Within each Age Division there are at least one and possibly many Heats.
\par 
\par Heats enable the competition organiser to run a number of races in order to gradually reduce the number of competitors to a single final heat.  Each Heat has the following:
\par 
\par \ul \b\ul\cf2 Final Level\plain\f1\b\fs20\cf2 {\v L470}\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : The Final Level describes what final level the heat belongs to.  For example, a Heat(s) with a Final Level of 0 indicates that the heat(s) is at "Grand Final" level.  \i 
\par \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \ul \b\ul\cf2 Heat Number\plain\f1\b\fs20\cf2 {\v L480}\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : The Heat Number indicates what heat the race is within the Final Level.  
\par \pard 
\par \ul \b\ul\cf2 Point Scale\plain\f1\b\fs20\cf2 {\v L490}\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : The Point Scale determines how points are allocated for a race.  
\par 
\par \ul \b\ul\cf2 Promotion Type\plain\f1\b\fs20\cf2 {\v L500}\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : Competitor can be promoted into the next Final Level either in staggered or smooth fashion.  
\par 
\par \ul \b\ul\cf2 Use Times\plain\f1\b\fs20\cf2 {\v L510}\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : The Carnival organiser has the option to either promote competitors into the next Final Level by time or place.  
\par \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \cf4 \{bmc bm7.BMP\}\plain\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Final Levels}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L470}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Events, Final Levels;Final Levels}
\b\fs32\cf1 Final Level\cf6 
\par \pard\li1735\fi-1495\tx1735 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx1735 The Final Level describes what final level the heat belongs to.  For example, a Heat(s) with a Final Level of 0 indicates that the heat(s) is at "Grand Final" level.  This is the final race in the division.
\par \pard\tx1735 
\par \pard\tx1735 A Final Level of 1 would indicate that the Heat is in the "Semi Final" level.  When competitors are promoted (according to time or place), they will be promoted into the next final level above it, i.e. from Final Level \b 1\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  (semi-final) into Final Number \b 0\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  ("Grand Final").
\par \pard\tx1735 
\par \pard\tx1735 \b Note\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : It is important that Final Levels are in consecutive order and conclude at Level 0.  If there were 3 Final Levels they would be numbered  2,1,0.   You can not number them 4,2,0 or 4,3,2 say.  They must be consecutive and must conclude at 0.\i 
\par \pard\tx1735 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx1735 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx1735 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Heat Number}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L480}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Heat Number}
\b\fs32\cf1 Heat Number\cf6 
\par \pard\li1735\fi-1495\tx1735 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx1735 The Heat Number indicates which heat the particular race is in the Final Level.  Under normal circumstances Final Level 0 would have only one Heat Number because a Grand Final \b normally \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 consists of a single race.  However, it is possible to have any amount of Heat Numbers in a given Final Level.
\par \pard\li1735\fi-1495\tx1735 
\par \pard\tx1735 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx1735 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Point Scale}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L490}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Point Scale}
\b\fs32\cf1 Point Scale\cf6 
\par \pard\li1735\fi-1495\tx1735 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx1735 The Point Scale determines how points are allocated for a race.  The race organizer is able to allocate a different point scale to each race.  For example, 1st place in a Grand Final (level 0) might gain 10 points whilst 1st place in a quarter final (level 2) might gain only 5.  The race organizer has complete freedom in the allocation of points to a race.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Synchronize Point Scale}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L495}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Point Scale, Synchronise}
\b\fs32 Synchronize Point Scale\cf6 
\par \pard\li1735\fi-1495\tx1735 \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx1735 Sometimes it is desirable to apply different point scales to different heats within a final level.  Un-checking the \f2\cf4 Synchronize Point Scales\f1\cf1  check box on the \f2\b\cf4 Event Details\plain\f1\fs20\cf1  form allows you to do this.
\par 
\par \pard\tx1735 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \pard\tx1735 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Promotion Type}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L500}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Events, Promotion Type;Promotion Type}
\b\fs32\cf1 Promotion Type\cf6 
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par Competitors can be promoted into the next Final Level either in staggered or smooth fashion or not at all.  For the following examples, suppose that the next Final Level that the competitors will be promoted into has only 3 heats.  Then:
\par 
\par \pard\li255 \b Staggered \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 fashion means that the fastest time in the previous Final Level will go into heat  number 1, the second fastest into heat number 2, the third fastest into heat 3, then the fourth fastest into heat number 1 again.  This way, those that perform best in previous races have the best chance of winning in future races.
\par 
\par \b Smooth \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 fashion means that the fastest time in the previous Final Level will go into heat  number 1, the second fastest will also go into heat number 1, the third fastest also into heat 1, but the fourth fastest into heat number 2.  This way, those that perform best in previous races will race against others of equal standard, increasing competition and aiding the competitors to achieve better times.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Use Times}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L510}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Events, Use Times;Use Times}
\b\fs32 Use Times
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \pard\tx1735 The Carnival organiser has the option to either promote competitors into the next Final Level by time or place.  If they are promoted by place then the those competitors with the best places will gain entry into the next Final Level, regardless of time.
\par 
\par If competitors are promoted by time, then all the times gained by the competitors in the Previous Final Level will be analysed and the best will be selected for promotion into the next Final Level.
\par 
\par \b Note\plain\f1\fs20\cf1 : Selecting promote by Times will, in distance or points based events, promote by distance or points respectively.
\par \pard\tx1735 \plain\f1\fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Lane Promotion}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L520}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Events, Lane Promotion;Lane Promotion}
\b\fs32\cf1 Lane Promotion
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \cf4 \{bmr bm8.BMP\}\cf1 The lane into which competitors are promoted can be specified for each event.  The one Lane Promotion sequence will be used across all Final Levels.  This allows the best competitors in the previous Final Levels to compete in the best lanes in their next race.  For example, the middle lanes in both swimming and running events are generally considered the best whilst the far outside lanes are considered the worst.  By specifying the lane promotion sequence as shown, the carnival organiser ensures that the lane in which the competitor competes reflects the place previously gained.
\par \pard \cf4 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Set up Heats}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L530}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Heats, Setup}
\b\fs32\cf1 Setup Heats and Finals
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par It can be a time consuming process to specify all the Heats in each \plain\f1\fs20 Final Level\cf1  for every \plain\f1\fs20 Age/Gender division\cf1 .  To simplify the task, the carnival organiser can use the Setup Heats feature found on the Event Details form (and also in the Add Event Wizard).   
\par 
\par The form allows you to specify:\line

\par 1. How many heats will be offered in each final level.
\par 2. What point scale is used for each final level.
\par 3. What promotion method is used to promote from one final level into the next.
\par \pard 4. Whether places or points are used as the promotion criteria.
\par 5. (Optional) The number of competitors allowed in each heat for events where there is no lane limit (800m, 1500m, field events etc)\line

\par \plain\fs20 Some examples are the best way to understand this.
\par 
\par \i\b Example 1\plain\fs20 : Say we are working on the 100m Sprint.  Each \i Event\plain\fs20  is comprised of at most 6 heats from which the top 8 competitors race in a single grand final.  We would enter the following:\line

\par \trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft-101 \cellx974\cellx2044\cellx2944\cellx4153\cellx5503\cellx6583\pard\intbl\qc \b\fs16 Final Level\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc # of Heats\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc Point Scale\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc Promotion Method\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc Use Results (X) / Places (\'7f)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc # of Comp in Heat\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft-101 \cellx974\cellx2044\cellx2944\cellx4153\cellx5503\cellx6583\pard\intbl\qc \plain\fs16 0\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc 1\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc FINALS\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc NONE\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc X\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft-101 \cellx974\cellx2044\cellx2944\cellx4153\cellx5503\cellx6583\pard\intbl\qc 1\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc 6\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc HEATS\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc SMOOTH\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc X\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc \cell\intbl\row
\pard \fs20 
\par As always, the first Final-Level is 0 (grand-final) and our second Final-Level is 1 (for the heats).  There is only a single grand-final \plain\f0\fs20 \'91\f2 heat\plain\f0\fs20 \'92\f2  so the \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 # of Heats\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2  for Final Level 0 is set to 1.  However there a 6 heats for Final-Level 1 so  \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 # of Heats\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2  is set to 6. The Point Scale choices are determined by what you set up previously.  In this instance the promotion method doesn't matter seeing we are promoting into a single event only so we could choose either Smooth or Staggered.  Lastly, we will use results to do the promoting (which is almost always the case) seeing that we are interested in the 8 fastest rather than the 8 who came first and second but may not have gained the best times. \line

\par \pard \i\b Example 2\plain\fs20 : Say we are working on the 100m Sprint.  Each \i Event\plain\fs20  is comprised of only 8 'heats' with NO grand final (this is often the case when there is insufficient time to run a grand-final).  We would enter the following:\line

\par \trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft-101 \cellx974\cellx2044\cellx2944\cellx4153\cellx5503\cellx6583\pard\intbl\qc \b\fs16 Final Level\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc # of Heats\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc Point Scale\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc Promotion Method\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc Use Results (X) / Places (\'7f)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc # of Comp in Heat\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft-101 \cellx974\cellx2044\cellx2944\cellx4153\cellx5503\cellx6583\pard\intbl\qc \plain\fs16 0\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc 8\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc FINALS\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc NONE\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc X\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc \cell\intbl\row
\pard \fs20 
\par As always, the first Final Level is 0. There are 8 heats so the \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 # of Heats\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2  for Final Level 0 is set to 8.  Again the Point Scale options are determined by what you set up before.  In this instance the promotion method is set to \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 None\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2  since we are not promoting into any event (there are no grand finals as such).  Lastly, the results field can be set at either \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 Results\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2  or \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 Places\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2  since we are not promoting any events. \line

\par \pard \i\b Example 3\plain\fs20 : Say we are working on the 50m Freestyle event at a large carnival.  The pool has 10 lanes and there are 100 competitors competing.  The \i first \plain\fs20 3 competitors (i.e. those placed first, second or third) in each heat go into the semi-finals and then the \i fastest 10\plain\fs20  go into the grand-final. We would enter the following:\line

\par \trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft-101 \cellx974\cellx2044\cellx2944\cellx4153\cellx5503\cellx6583\pard\intbl\qc \b\fs16 Final Level\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc # of Heats\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc Point Scale\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc Promotion Method\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc Use Results (X) / Places (\'7f)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc # of Comp in Heat\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft-101 \cellx974\cellx2044\cellx2944\cellx4153\cellx5503\cellx6583\pard\intbl\qc \plain\fs16 0\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc 1\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc FINALS\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc NONE\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc \cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft-101 \cellx974\cellx2044\cellx2944\cellx4153\cellx5503\cellx6583\pard\intbl\qc 1\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc 3\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc HEATS\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc SMOOTH\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc X (Results)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft-101 \cellx974\cellx2044\cellx2944\cellx4153\cellx5503\cellx6583\pard\intbl\qc 2\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc 10\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc HEATS\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc SMOOTH\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc \'7f (Places)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc \cell\intbl\row
\pard \fs20 
\par \i\b Example 4\plain\fs20 : Say we are working on the 800m event at a large carnival.  There are 100 competitors competing.  Each race can accommodate at most 20 competitors. There are three final levels: quarter-final, semi-final and grand-final.  The \i fastest 60\plain\fs20  competitors in the quarter-finals (20 per race) go into the semi-final (15 per race).  Then the fastest 10 go into the grand final. We would enter the following:\line

\par \trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft-101 \cellx974\cellx2044\cellx2944\cellx4153\cellx5503\cellx6583\pard\intbl\qc \b\fs16 Final Level\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc # of Heats\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc Point Scale\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc Promotion Method\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc Use Results (X) / Places (\'7f)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc # of Comp in Heat\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft-101 \cellx974\cellx2044\cellx2944\cellx4153\cellx5503\cellx6583\pard\intbl\qc \plain\fs16 0\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc 1\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc FINALS\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc NONE\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc \cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc 10\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft-101 \cellx974\cellx2044\cellx2944\cellx4153\cellx5503\cellx6583\pard\intbl\qc 1\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc 4\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc HEATS\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc SMOOTH\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc X (Results)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc 15\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft-101 \cellx974\cellx2044\cellx2944\cellx4153\cellx5503\cellx6583\pard\intbl\qc 2\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc 5\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc HEATS\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc SMOOTH\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc X (Results)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\qc 20\cell\intbl\row
\pard \fs20 
\par 
\par If you are using the Add Event Wizard and are satisfied with the way you have constructed the finals continue on to setup the Lane Promotion.\line

\par Otherwise push the \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 Create Heats and Finals\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2  button.  In a few seconds all the heats and finals will be created for each \i Event Division \plain\fs20 you created earlier.
\par 
\par NOTE:
\par 1. The automatic creation of heats removes all previous heats (and their competitors).  
\par 2. If you are not happy with the results of the automatic heat creation, simply repeat the process correcting whatever mistake was made.
\par \pard 3. You can modify individual heats in the Maintain Event form.\f1 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Utilities}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L540}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} HTML Files;Utilities;Web Page Creation}
\b\fs32\cf1 Utilities
\par \pard \plain\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par \plain\fs20 The \i Utilities\plain\fs20  form provides a number of miscellaneous operations.  These include lane substitution, final level substitution, gender substitution, specifying report headers and footers, specifying file locations for the web page generation utility, the removal of empty heats, the copying of competitors from one event to another and backup locations.
\par 
\par \pard \f1\b\fs22\cf5 HTML Utilities Tab
\par \pard \plain\fs20 
\par The HTML Utilities tab allows you to tell the Sports Administrator where the HTML template files are located.
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\b\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Web Page Header\plain\fs20 : Enter the name that you wish to appear on the top of the generated HTML pages
\par \f3\b\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Template File\plain\fs20 : Locate the template file that will be used to format the standard HTML pages. \b Summary Template File\plain\fs20 : locate template file that will be used to format the summary HTML pages\plain\f0\fs20 
\par \f3\b\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Location to put generated Web pages\plain\fs20 : Locate the folder into which you want the generated Web pages to be placed.
\par \pard\tx355 \b 
\par \pard\tx355 Note\plain\fs20 : Template files are provided with the Sports Administrator.  They are  called \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 _template.htm\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2  and \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 _template-summary\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2 .htm.  Look at or modify these files in order to create your own template files.  They use simple tags to insert the appropriate report data.
\par \pard\tx355 \f1\b\fs22\cf5 
\par \pard\tx355 Remove Empty Heats Tab
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\fs20 
\par \pard\tx355 When setting up events it is wise to have more heats than are needed for all competitors.  (It takes a while to have to go back and create them manually).  This feature enables you to remove all heats that have no competitors enrolled in them.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b Use this feature with care\plain\fs20 .  There is a danger of removing future events because these may not have any competitors enrolled in them.  It would be unusual to ever have to use this function to remove future events.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \f1\b\fs22\cf5 Copy Competitors Tab
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\fs20 
\par \pard\tx355 Sometimes the carnival organiser wishes to have the same competitors in two or more different events.  This feature enables you to enroll competitors into one event and then copy them into another.  You must ensure that there is a sufficient number of heats to accommodate those competitors you are copying into the second event.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 You must enter a value in all the fields of both the \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 From Event\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2  and the \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 To Event\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2 .  You can use the wildcard character (*) to select all the events in that category.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 Competitors will not be copied if the \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 To Event\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2  does not have sufficient heats, or if the competitor is already enrolled in that event.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \f1\b\fs22\cf5 Backup Tab
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\fs20 
\par \pard\tx355 See the \uldb \cf2 backup topic\plain\fs20\cf2 {\v L560}\plain\fs20 .
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:000c}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Setup Carnival}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L550}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Carnival, Setup}
\f1\b\fs32\cf1 Setup Carnival
\par \pard \plain\fs20 Displays the \b\cf4 Setup a Carnival\plain\fs20  dialog that show each step that is required to construct a carnival from scratch.  All steps outlined on this form can be accessed directly from the \b\cf4 Main Menu\plain\fs20 .
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:000d}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Backup Carnival}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L560}
\pard\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Carnival, Backup}
\f1\b\fs32\cf1 Backup Carnival
\par \pard \plain\fs20 The \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  allows you to backup the current carnival file with just one click.  
\par 
\par The location that the \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  backs up the carnival file is set in the \b\cf4 Utilities\plain\fs20  form under the \cf4 Backup \plain\fs20 tab.  Here you can specify that the backup file is saved to either:
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The same folder that the carnival file resides in OR
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The specified folder.  This option enables you to save the carnival file to a completely different computer.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 The name of the backup file is the same as the carnival file but with \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 _backup\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2  appended to it.  So a file called \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 primary.mdb\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2  has a backup file called \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 primary_backup.mdb\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2 .  The backup file will usually be smaller than the original due to the compression that is applied at the time of the backup.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:000e}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Networking the Sports Administrator}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L570}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Networking}
\f1\b\fs32\cf1 Networking the Sports Administrator 
\par \pard \plain\fs20 
\par The \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  can be used on a limited number of computers simultaneously.  The practical limit is determined by the speed of both the computers and the network link between them.  The \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  should work fine on a network of 2 to 5 computers.  
\par 
\par The following provides a brief guide to networking the \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator.\plain\fs20  
\par 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  uses simple file sharing to provide network support.  Thus the \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  can be run on virtually any network system.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  application must be installed on each computer.  (Or at least the sports.mde file must be located on each computer).
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Locate the carnival file(s) on the fastest computer available.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The carnival file (or files) that you want to access must be on a computer (either a desktop or a server) that can be accessed from all other computers.  
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 One of the simplest ways of doing this is through Peer-to-Peer networking of Windows 9x or Windows NT.  Share the folder where the carnival file is stored. Check that the shared folder can be seen from the other computers. Start the \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  and go to the \b\cf4 Maintain Carnivals\plain\fs20  form. Push the \cf4 Add\plain\fs20  button.  Enter a descriptive name for the carnival and \cf4 locate\plain\fs20  the carnival file in the shared folder.   That\plain\f0\fs20 \'92\f2 s it!
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 Note: 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  will not let two people work on the same record at the same time.  The \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  will inform you if this event occurs.
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Backing up the carnival file (or compacting it) can only be performed when the carnival file is not in use.  To ensure the backup can be completed either have all other computers go to the \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  \b\cf4 Main Menu\plain\fs20  screen or exit the \f1\b\cf1 Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  entirely.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:0004}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Sports View}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L580}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Sports View}
\f1\b\fs32\cf1 Sports View
\par \pard \plain\fs20 
\par The \b Sports Administrator\plain\fs20  has a separate module called \i Sports View\plain\fs20 .  It is designed to allow competitors to view their results only.  No modifications to the carnival results can be made from this module.  Launch the module from the shortcut created when you installed the program (the default location is Start | Programs | Sports Administrator | Sports View).
\par 
\par Certain aspects of the program are password protected.  The initial password is \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 password\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2 .  It can be changed by going into the \i Maintain Carnivals\plain\fs20  form.  If you forget the password then simply restore the \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 sportsview.mde\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2  file from the distribution CD.
\par \pard 
\par Competitors can check their results, check current age champion placings, and check the results for all competitors in any event.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:0005}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Installation}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L590}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Installation}
\f1\b\fs32\cf1 Installing the Sports Administrator 
\par \pard \plain\fs20 
\par \b To install the \i\scaps sports administrator\plain\b\fs20 :
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \plain\f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Insert the CD in the drive.  
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 If the Autorun feature of windows is enabled the setup program will launch automatically.  
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 If this does not happen, use the Windows Explorer to locate the CD Drive.  
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Locate the file called \plain\f0\fs20 \'93\f2 Setup.exe\plain\f0\fs20 \'94\f2 .  
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Double-click the file to start the setup process.  
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Then follow the onscreen instructions.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b Note:
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\fs20 Because MS Access database files are used to store the carnival results, you are able to access those files through MS Access or through a number of other applications including MS Word and MS Excel.  This means that you could generate your own reports and graphs.  Feel free to access the results in this manner but DO NOT modify the data.  This could compromise the integrity of the database.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 A number of web template files and documents are stored in sub-folders under the installation directory.  Feel free to use and modify these documents.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0003:0006}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Quick Start Guide}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L600}
\pard\keepn\li545\fi-545 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Quick Start Guide}
\f1\b\fs32\cf1 Quick Start Guide 
\par \pard \plain\fs20 
\par Here is a brief quick start guide to get your carnival underway.
\par 
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Have a good look at the demo carnival.  Play with this one a bit to familiarise yourself with the program. Don\plain\f0\fs20 \'92\f2 t be too concerned about modifying it.  You can always reinstall the demo file later.\line

\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 On the main menu push the \i Setup Carnival\plain\fs20  button.  \line

\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Follow the steps one through eight to set up your carnival from scratch.  \line

\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Firstly create a new carnival.  Give it a name and specify a file for the carnival to be stored in.\line

\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Setup the necessary point scales.  Usually there are different point scales for different events.  For example grand finals usually receive more points then heats.\line

\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Add the appropriate teams that will be competing in the carnival.  \line

\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Add the events that will be held during the carnival.  It is a good idea to set up one event first making sure that is correct and then copy it to create the other events.\line

\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Allocate default lanes to each team if you haven\plain\f0\fs20 \'92\f2 t done so already.  The Sports Administrator will automatically put competitors into these lanes when they are enrolled in an event.\line

\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 Set the event order.  This is optional and is not usually necessary for carnivals where marshalling lists aren\plain\f0\fs20 \'92\f2 t used \line

\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 If you are responsible for entering the competitors into the events push the enter competitors button.  (The \i\scaps sports administrator\plain\fs20  also allows you to generate disks with all the events on for each team.  A person for each team can then enter the competitors\plain\f0\fs20 \'92\f2  names into the events for you.  This feature is usually only used for inter-school carnivals or the like).\line
There are two ways of getting competitors into your carnival. \line
\line
a) The easiest way is to import all competitor details from a text file that can be generated by, say, a school administration system.  The required format can be found in the help file.  Push the \i Import Carnival Competitors from a Text File\plain\fs20  button.\line
\line
b) Alternatively you can enter each competitor manually.  Push the \i Enter Carnival Competitors Manually\plain\fs20  button.\line
\line
Lastly you must enroll competitors into events.  Push the \i Enter Competitors into Events\plain\fs20  button, select the event to enter competitors into and start adding competitors to it.\line

\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f2\fs20 The last thing to do is to generate event lists.  Again this may not be necessary if you do not require marshalling sheets.\line
\fs22 \line
\fs20 Your carnival is now ready.  When competitor results start coming in push the \i Enter Results\plain\fs20  button on the Main Menu to begin entering them. 
\par \pard\tx355 
\par }